# MIE1624_finalproject
Exploring COVID-19 data with respect to vaccination and hospitalization rates

Data had to be prepared to be aware of missing data. Canada and the US were selected to compare vaccination and booster rates. Missing data was handled by interpolating between data points. This approach was concluded safe to do after manually investigating and inspecting the data with respect to specific countries (e.g. Canada). Any other missing data was replaced with zeros. 

Time-series analysis was performed to create potential future projects for vaccination rates with 95% confidence interval. The architecture chosen was from the auto arima package. However, the resulting graphs displayed showed that the specific package used was inappropriate. Future models need to be aware of setting restrictions such as preventing downward trends in vaccination rates. Nonetheless, the graph on the booster rates for Canaadians show that more booster elligibility is needed to ensure a faster uptake, as the trend at the time of plotting was not showing significant growth with respect to the booster rate. 

Analysis of vaccination rates vs hospitalization rates in the United States and Canada show that vaccination does help significantly reduce hospitalization rates. More specifically, achieving roughly 80% vaccination rate helped decrease hospitalization rate to roughly 75 hospitalizations per million (Canada). This data is in contrast to roughly 70% vaccination rate (the United States) achieving a hospitalization rate of roughly 300 per million. Granted, quantifying this correlation would not be reasonable because other pandemic practices such as masking, social distancing, contact tracing, among others, also need to be considered, but this data is beyond what was available. 
